
What is an Object File?

Jerry Morrison


An object file is a computer file generated by a program called a
compiler and contains data as well as instructions. Compilers translate
programming language source code into an intermediate machine-readable
form known as object code. Smaller programs might be compiled in a
single object file, while large programs are typically compiled into
several files of related function. These individual object files are
joined by a linker and opreating system specific information is added to
form an executable program.

In common practice, an object file is denoted by an ".obj" file
extension. There are several different formats for these files, however.
The most common are the Intel Relocatable Object Module Format (OMF),
and the Common Object File Format (COFF) of Windows and UNIX System V.
In many UNIX systems, the Executable and Linkable Format (ELF) has come
to replace COFF.

Regardless of format, an object file typically contains three types
information that allows it to interact with other program modules.
Procedures and data that are open to outside reference are assigned
names by which they can be called from other modules. Similarly,
references to information outside the module are noted but not assigned
a name. When the files are linked, the unnamed references will be
assigned the name given them in the module where they were originally
defined. Local names are used for instructions and data referred to
solely within a module.

Not all linkable code is stored as object files. Libraries are
collections of precompiled routines that are stored as object code. They
are produced in much the same way as object files and are useful for
storing frequently called procedures. When a linker does not find a
reference within other object files, it will automatically search for it
in a library file. Most implementations of a programming language come
with a standard library of functions.

By means of dynamic linking, an object file can be simultaneously used
by multiple executing programs. Instead of binding object code to a
program when linked, it is retrieved when the program is loaded or at
runtime when a procedure is referenced. In the Windows environment,
these are known as dynamic link libraries and are denoted by a ".dll"
extension. Systems similar to UNIX often term this type of file a
dynamic shared object (DSO). This type of object file may also be
implemented for use with a particular program and would be a part of
that program's installation.

---
https://www.easytechjunkie.com/what-is-an-object-file.htm
